

# Disclaimer

This is a work in progress and subject to change. Changes may be reflected in a future iteration or the final version. It may contain issues, bugs, performance issues and other potential, but unexpected, problems. Please take in consideration that synthetic data was used for testing.

GOOGLE CONFIDENTIAL - SHARED UNDER NDA - DO NOT DISTRIBUTE
Please be advised that this Looker Pacing Block LookML code is currently under development. As customer needs evolve, the LookML code may be modified accordingly. Your organization will be informed of any material changes via email, especially if your company utilizes the Looker (originals) version.
Please be aware that this dashboard may consume significant BigQuery resources, potentially incurring additional costs.
In case you need some help with the connection, please refer to this Looker Documentation: BigQuery
For questions/issues and feedback, reach out to insights-customer-support@google.com.



# Multisource Ads Block

A Pacing dashboard is designed to provide a centralized view of campaign performance over time. It allows marketers to track key metrics such as impressions, clicks, conversions, and cost per acquisition (CPA) against predetermined pacing goals. This visual representation helps identify areas where campaigns are ahead or behind schedule, enabling timely adjustments to optimize performance.
Our Pacing dashboard is specifically tailored for [target audience, e.g., digital marketing managers, performance marketers]. By providing granular insights into ad data.

This repository contains views and explores used for the Multisource Ads Block dashboards.(WORK IN PROGRESS, currently supported Meta Ads and Google Ads). There are several dashboards that come with this block, for Meta Ads: Core Metrics by Campaign - Meta Ads Overview, Campaign Manager that also includes Marketing Campaign Comparison and Spend vs Revenue. Multisource Ads Demo Dashboard. Each of the dashboards provides in-depth analysis of ad/campaign performance.

The LookML constants are used to specify the name of the schema and connection.
They are defined in the manifest file of this project and ready to be replaced for your parameters.


### Requirements

This block requires a data transfer to a single BigQuery project from the ads datasets.

#Facebook - Meta
Here is the [official documentation](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/facebook-ads-transfer) about how to do this transfer process añadir API

#Google Ads
Here is the [official documentation](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/google-ads-transfer) about how to do this transfer process añadir API

1. Custom Visualizations:
   - Go to Marketplace > Discover and search for "Radial Gauge" and install


## Installation

#### Constants

On block installation you will need to specify the following constants:

```
constant: CONNECTION_NAME {
 value: "Connection name"
 export: override_required
}

constant: PROJECT_ID {
  value: "Project ID"
  export: override_required
}

constant: FADS_DATASET_NAME {
  value: "Facebook Ads Dataset"
  export: override_required
}

constant: GADS_DATASET_NAME {
  value: "Google Ads Dataset"
  export: override_required
}

constant: GADS_CUSTOMER_ID {
  value: "Customer ID"
  export: override_required
}


```

Select the [BigQuery connection](https://cloud.google.com/looker/docs/db-config-google-bigquery) that has access to the ads datasets. Looker will require PDTs to be enabled on this connection to create derived tables that will be leveraged by the block.

### Optional

There are 5 types of fields included to leverage campaign information from your sources and create a derived table that unifies it and that you can later join to any of your sources explores and get global goals values for certain campaigns. For this to be possible it’s necessary that you unify across sources the Campaign names of the ones you’re interested to use.

```
#### Information Campaign 1 #####

constant: CAMPAIGN_NAME_1 {
  value: "your_campaign_name"
  export: override_optional
}

constant: DATE_START_CMP_1 {
  value: "2024-05-01" # Start date of your campaign
  export: override_optional
}

constant: DATE_END_CMP_1 {
  value: "2024-10-10" # End date of your campaign
  export: override_optional
}

constant: GOAL_CMP_1 {
  value: "1500000" # Goal Value
  export: override_optional
}

constant: GOAL_TYPE_CMP_1 {
  value: "Clicks" # Type of Goal
  export: override_optional
}


```
#### Model Access

- Ensure that all users that want to use this block have access to the newly created models (this will need to be done after the block is installed)
- Users will need to have a Looker role that either includes all model sets (e.g. an admin) or have a new role created which includes the model `fb_ads`, `google_ads`, `multisource_ads`

# Files

## Views

## Facebook Ads

### Base Views


The base views folder contains the autogenerated LookML base definition of the 3 tables:

[ad_accounts](./views/fb_ads_views/base_views/ad_accounts.view.lkml), [ad_insights](./views/fb_ads_views/base_views/ad_insights.view.lkml), [ad_insights_actions](./views/fb_ads_views/base_views/ad_insights_actions.view.lkml)

-ad_insights and ad_insights_actions tables are queried as a derived table and include 1 additional column:
  - `GENERATE_UUID() AS pk` for a primary key for ensuring correct aggregation.
- All fields are hidden by default and only exposed in the refinement layer




## Google Ads

### Base Views

The base views folder contains the autogenerated LookML base definition of the 5 tables:

[google_ads_ad](./views/google_ads_views/base_views/google_ads_ad.view.lkml), [google_ads_campaign](./views/google_ads_views/base_views/google_ads_campaign.view.lkml), [google_ads_customer](./views/google_ads_views/base_views/google_ads_customer.view.lkml), [google_ads_group](./views/google_ads_views/base_views/google_ads_group.view.lkml), [google_ads_stats](./views/google_ads_views/base_views/google_ads_stats.view.lkml)

- All fields are hidden by default and only exposed in the refinement layer[WORK IN PROGRESS]



## Facebook Ads

### Refined

### Derived Views


The derived_views folder contains the refined versions of the 3 views: [core_analysis](./views/fb_ads_views/derived_views/core_analysis.view.lkml), [period_over_period](./views/fb_ads_views/derived_views/period_over_period.view.lkml)[work in progress],
[primary_metrics](./views/fb_ads_views/derived_views/primary_metrics.view.lkml)

[core_analysis]


This view includes refinements of all three base views from Meta. These refinements include all dimension groups, measures, parameters and sets that the dashboards use and that are necessary to calculate the metrics and offer functionalities for the user.

[period_over_period]

This refinement of ad_insights includes a method to do Period Over Period analysis with the current and previous period.




[primary_metrics]

This refinement includes all the fields to display and it can be changed according to your needs to show the necessary fields, a default list ready to use.

### Derived Tables

#### Fact Tables


[dt_fb_ads](./views/fb_ads_views/derived_views/dt_fb_ads.view.lkml)

Native derived table created to query only the fields necessary to calculate relevant metrics of Meta Ads

[dt_google_ads](./views/google_ads_views/derived_views/dt_google_ads.view.lkml)

Native derived table created to query only the fields necessary to calculate relevant metrics of Google Ads

[multisource_ads](/views/pacing_block/multisource_ads.view.lkml)

The dt_fb_ads and dt_google_ads derived tables are used in a UNION ALL in the multisource_ads view, this is done by using a SQL derived table that combines results from those views resulting in a unified table. This view contains core metrics like clicks, impressions, conversions, spend and revenue, dates along other key metrics of campaigns.

[campaign_flat_goals](/views/goals/campaigns_flat_goals.view.lkml)

This SQL derived table is used to calculate the daily goal from the  derived table campaign_info created from the constants included in the manifest file.


[campaign_info](/views/goals/campaigns_info.view.lkml)

This SQL derived table is used to create a table from the constants in the manifest file where you define the campaigns info to analyze.

## Explores

The explore folder contains the join logic between the views.

The [fb_ads](/explores/fb_ads.explore.lkml) includes all the explore definitions from the fb_ads explore. ad_accounts is hidden by default.


ad_insights is joined to ad_insights actions and it serves as the main explore to use in all dashboards, it has a type inner join and a one to many relationship, joining all fields that are relevant.



[google_ads](/explores/fb_ads.explore.lkml) includes all the explore definitions from google_ads data.

The views google_ads_customer , google_ads_campaign,google_ads_group, google_ads_ad are joint to google_ads_stats, it has a type inner` join and a many to one relationship joining fields by ids.

[pacing_block](/explores/fb_ads.explore.lkml)

It contains the multisources_ads explore.

[goals_campaigns](/explores/goals_campaigns.explore.lkml)

It contains the joins between the views created from the optional manifest file constants, these views come from /views/goals folder and the ad_insights table to build an explore that is used to see the daily goal values vs the actual data.




## Models


[fb_ads](models/fb_ads.model.lkml) and includes all the LookML dashboards that are currently working with MetaAds.Datagroups can be defined here.

[google_ads](/models/google_ads.model.lkml)

This model includes all views from the google_ads folder. Datagroups can be defined here.

[google_ads](/models/pacing_block.model.lkml)

This model includes all views from the pacing block folder. Datagroups can be defined here.


## LookML Dashboards

### Core Metrics

This dashboards is a pacing dashboard and its objective is to give an overall overview of the Meta Ads data and how it is compared towards the goals of key metrics(Clicks, Impressions, Conversions, Cost) defined for your campaigns or by setting a general goal value by source(Facebook, Instagram)

### Campaign Manager

Overview on campaigns and comparisons between them to check progress over time and from different sources, this dashboard is linked directly to Marketing Campaign Comparison

### Spend and Revenue

Add a more in depth context on Spend vs. Revenue, to check if the investment on campaigns is going as expected.

### Multisource Ads Demo [Work in progress]

This dashboard joins data from all sources, showing key metrics by all sources or by filtering them.


## How do I customize this block to add my own data?

You can leverage [refinements](https://cloud.google.com/looker/docs/lookml-refinements) to join your own data to this block
